In this lesson, we have our own work. It is necessary to implement a pickup of lives: if you and I
take damage and take a pickup of lives, then the number that is stored in this pickup is added to the health.
If our health scale is full, then we cannot take pickup. This should be done by analogy with the ammo pickup through the health component.
Let's start solving our homework.
Let's create a property in the protected section, which will store the number of lives that we want to add after
taking the pickup. The property macro is the same as in ammo pickup, that is, EditAnywhere. I also set clamp: the
minimum value is one and the maximum is -100. Name the variable HealthAmount and set it to 100
by default. Further, in each instance, we can replace this value.
Go to the .cpp file, include the necessary header files. We need a health component and STUUtils.
Let's start by getting the health component. Everything is simple here. Further, if the component is not found, we simply
exit the function. We will check for IsDead inside the component, I also remind you that in our logic
with spectator - the absence of the health component also means the death of the character. If the health component is found,
then, by analogy with the previous lesson, we will create a function, which we will call TryToAddHealth,
to which we will pass the amount of health and it will return true if the health was successfully added.
Go to the header file health component. We declare the function in the public section.
In the health component, we will also create a helper function, which we call IsHealthFull, it can be defined in the public section, there is
nothing wrong with that, maybe someone will need it in the future.
Go to the .cpp file
Create a body for each function.
In fact, we already have the code for the IsHealthFull function. In the HealUpdate function, we have already compared Health and MaxHealth.
Therefore, we can simply copy this code and paste it into the IsHealthFull function.
Plus, here we are refactoring method highlighting, which improves the readability of our program.
Substitute IsHealthFull in HealUpdate. Go to TryToAddHealth. First, let's check the conditions under which this
function will return false. There are 2 such conditions: either the character is dead, or we have a full health scale.
We return false. If we have passed these conditions, then we can use our function
of the health component SetHealth and add HealthAmount to the current value of life.
That is, the value that we pass as a parameter. Do not forget to add return true at the end
That is, the lives have been successfully added by our function. Let me also remind you that if suddenly HealthAmount is some kind of large number,
then in the SetHealth function this value will be limited only by the MaxHealth value.
We compile the project.
We inflict small damage on the character. We are trying to take a pickup and our health bar is completely full.
If we try to do this at full scale, the pickup will not be taken.